Hey, guys, in this lesson, we will talk about git and github, first of all, we will talk about what
the git is.
Secondly, we will compare it with github.
Fine, and we will get an example about it.
Let's start with git definition.
Git.
Is it version control system in tracks, changes on file.
It supports any type of file.
On the other hand, GitHub is that repository.
We can push our getData to github and GitHub serves as a hosting service for Git. Git and GitHub also
provide collaboration so we can create a project that we can work with as a team.
Let's talk about git basic keywords.
We can say repository for all good content and get historias.
Git repository is constructed from branches.
We can describe multiple branches on git repository.
These branches can trace different historic paths for different files.
And finally, a branch is constructed from Commins.
Each commit has a unique idea and we can revert commits.
OK, now we can see it.
basics on that example.
First of all, we should download and install git according to our operating system.
After we don't want it, we can install it with clicking next and next buttons.
So there is no specific thing on these steps.
After installation we should describe our git username and email because git should know commit assignee
git assigns each commit to collaborate to set it.
We can use git config global settings.
If you have a GitHub account, please describe your credentials according to that information.
Then we can create that new project and we can see all git processes, let's create a new project like
git demo.
Then we can open this project with an editor in here, we can use lots of different editors according
to our desires.
But in this lesson, as a programmer, I will use Intellij and let's open our project on Intellij.
OK, we are ready to start coding now, first of all, we should check git status when we check it.
It says This project is not a git Project.
First of all, let's create a test file,
we can write some random things as context.
Now, let's assume that our first feature is ready and we want to commit our project to get and get.
So we should specify, as this project is a good project, we can do it via git in it connects, OK.
Now, our project is a git project, good project.
Stores files with two steps.
These steps are staged and commits so we can add or remove fires on stage label that we can commit
our stage files to commit level, to add files to git stage.
We can use it at commits, we can add all fires or we can add files.
But I want to add all files we can use get at that or to add files one by one.
We can use git add filename.
After adding files, files will be on stage level on git any more than we should commit our changes and
send them to the git tree. git-commit command is git commit, plus commit message.
When we commit it commit log will be seen on git history, logs on git each commit will have a unique
id.
We can see log details on intellij detaily and clearly.
Then when we create a new commitment, logs will be updated.
Of course, we can revert back commits when we change the name of the file.
git also tracks the previous file because git doesn't care with file name git interest with file hash.
Now, let's create a new file and we will check the log change on all the files, we can add new
random content to the new file.
Done when we commit our file, our previous file doesn't be affected by the new commitments because
the text only modified files and get stores, only these changes on local history.
Otherwise, each commitment will shrink our git repository and will not be effective.
OK, now our local get commitment is really we want to work collaboratively on the same project to do
it, we can work on different projects.
For example, I can work on master branch and my partner can work on dev brach.
Then we can merge our courts to New branch to do it.
We can create branchs and we can switch branchs easily to create a new branch.
Our command is each branch plus branch name.
Then we can check out branchs
or we can create and check out new branchs with a single commit like git.
Check out the branch name on those branchs.
Let's create a new file and let's commit it to their branch.
When we switch our branch to master.
We couldn't see the new file because each branch has its own size and its own file historiy.
And we couldn't see their files and master without merging them to the master branch when we switched
to the dev branch, we can see the new file again.
OK, now we saw the base commands about git.
Now we want to push our code to github to do it.
First of all, we will open our github dashboard,
then we will click the new repository button.
Then we will specfy our repository name.
Our repositoryy name will be git-demo.
Then we can set access rights in here.
We will set it as public.
But of course you can go on with private mode when we said as public, everybody can see our codes.
But of course to collaborate we should give access to them.
Then we can create.
Actually, GitHub says what we do to import our codes here, first of all, we will initialize git on
our project, then we will add all items together, then we will relate our remote repository with the
project.
Then we will commit our codes with a commit message.
Finally, we will push it to get.
Actually, we did lots of them on our project.
Now we will relate our project with this GitHub repository.
Then we will push commits in here.
We have two branches we will push them one by one.
OK, now our code is reachable from GitHub as public.
In here that are redundant codes, like the idea folder with git, we can ignore them to ignore
them.
We can use it, gitignore file on the gitignore file.
We will specify the folder name.
Then we should remove idea of files because we pushed back.
If he didn't commit it, we don't need to remove them, but in here he committed them.
So first of all, we should remove the.
OK, now we can commit and push them again.
When we checked the repository again, we wont see the idea folder anymore yet, and it's up
have lots of different features in this lesson.
We couldn't give all the details, but I want to give an example about pull requests, because pull-request
is important for teams on teams.
We can create different branchees, then we can create pull requests from these branches and we can send
these pull requests to review.
Finally, if pull request is confirmed, we merge our branches.
Now, we will illustrate these steps, first of all, from pull request.
We want to merge our dev branch to Master branc.
We should give a name for our PR, then we can create it done from the review section.
We should choose a reviewer in here.
Your teammates will be listed.
If your code is approved, then we can merge our.
If we advance, we can also delete our feature brances.
OK, that's OK.
Thank you.